Welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If you're joining for the first time, I'm Rachel and it's great to meet you.
If this is your first hangout, this is an open space for the whole data science community
to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing and what's going on
in the world of data science.
You all have probably heard me say that a lot of times now.
These sessions are recorded and shared to YouTube as well.
Also on the Data Science Hangout site, so you can always go back and rewatch or find
helpful resources shared there too.
We always want to create spaces where everybody can participate and we can hear from everyone.
So there's three ways that you can ask questions today and jump in.
You can raise your hand on the Zoom chat, so I can call on you.
You can put questions in the Zoom chat and feel free to just put a little star next to
your question if you want me to read it out loud instead, but we also have a Slido link
that Tyler or Hannah will share in just a moment in the chat, so you can ask questions
anonymous or both of you at the same time.
You can ask questions anonymously too if you don't want to be part of the recording, but
just love to reiterate, we really want to hear from everyone, no matter your level of
experience or the area of work too.
But with all of that, I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host for today, Alice Walsh.
Alice is VP of Translational Research at Pathos.
And Alice, I'd love to just have you maybe introduce yourself and a little bit about
the work that you do to get us going.
Yeah, absolutely.
And let me know if you have any problems hearing me.
I had a yogurt-related microphone incident before this started, so I'm hoping that everything
is going to be good.
Yeah, so thank you so much, Rachel, for having me.
As mentioned, I'm Alice.
I live here outside of Philadelphia, where I work in drug development, and I think there's
probably been, I don't know, I'd be curious to hear on this call how many people do pharma
or research-related activities, because it's an interesting area, because pharma development
has always been very data-rich, right?
There's always been biostats teams who are involved in analyzing clinical trials and
all that sort of stuff.
And what I do is I'm involved much earlier in the process, so I've worked with everything
from drug discovery teams who do target identification, like what should we even make a drug for,
all the way through to drugs that are in registrational trials, like big phase three
studies, and we're trying to understand more around what are the patients that are responding
to drugs and benefiting from drugs versus those patients who aren't.
So I would describe myself as training in computational biology.
So I have a couple degrees in engineering, bioengineering, biological engineering, and
I got into drug development because I was really interested in working in patient data.
So I did a PhD where we did some really interesting projects where at University of Pennsylvania,
you could work with like a neurosurgeon and get access to like brain cancer samples.
And I thought like, oh, wow, this is so amazing, I can look at like 20 patients.
And then I interviewed with people in the pharmaceutical industry, and they were like,
oh, we have like 1000 patients.
I was like, oh, my God, that's amazing.
I want to do that.
I want to work with patient data.
And I want to try to understand, you know, what does disease mean at a molecular level?
And how could we use that information to make smarter drugs, or to identify the patients
that really should take our drugs.
So I can say a little bit about where I've worked and things I've worked at Janssen,
I worked at Bristol Myers Squibb.
So those are two of like the largest pharmaceutical companies, where I was doing like biomarker
type work leading teams who are working on those different aspects of drug development.
And so then most recently, now I work at a startup company.
So it's like the complete opposite of working at a giant company where you have lots of
infrastructure and IT and things like that.
So I moved over to oncology therapeutic startup where I was employee number two.
And so now we have like five people, we're going to 10 people.
So it's really exciting to be part of a company where we're starting from scratch.
Awesome.
What's been the biggest change in moving from a big company to this startup?
Other than the infrastructure and all that?
I have a lot fewer meetings.
I don't know.
I talked to people before about like, oh, what's it like day to day in a big company?
And I'm like, well, if you like having 13 meetings a day, it's fantastic.
Which I'm a people person.
I like talking to people.
So I actually didn't really mind having like nine to five, here's a meeting here, here's
a meeting there.
It's like a very dynamic environment.
But it is difficult if you really need to like put your head down and do some a lot
of like critical thinking.
And so I was doing all my thinking time in my car, you know, like driving between the
office and the house.
And now I work from home and I don't have that time, but I just have a lot more non
meeting time to like do some thinking, strategizing, come up with crazy ideas, all that sort of
stuff.
So that's the biggest difference, fewer meetings, because when there's only four people at a
company, it's really hard to talk to them all day.
By definition, the math doesn't work to have like 13 meetings a day.
Definitely.
I wasn't actually going to wait to ask this question of it, because you just said a lot
of your thinking happened in driving to work.
And I switched to remote work.
I know something you are interested in is optimizing remote work and remote teams.
So curious to just hear a bit about your thoughts on that.
Yeah.
Or what you're facing.
Yeah, no, I was thinking about that a lot.
Like this weekend, I went for a bike ride.
And I was having all these like ideas when I probably should have been like paying attention
to not getting hit by a car or something.
But yeah, now I have like all the good ideas come like on the treadmill, on the bike, in
the shower.
Like, I don't have the car time.
And I guess also I probably should have been doing like a lot of thinking in the car when
I was supposed to be paying attention to the road.
But yeah, I would love to talk to people about how they're doing remote work well, especially
for data teams, right?
Like, if I think about the types of interactions that I'm having, like, you don't necessarily
want to like make a big slide deck to explain something to a colleague or a coworker.
So like communicating effectively when all you have is like Slack huddles and like Zoom
meetings and all those sorts of things is a challenge.
Before I joined this startup, I was remote working as well to some extent, right?
So thanks to the pandemic, but even without the pandemic, I was on a team where I had
direct reports in Boston, New Jersey, and San Francisco.
So we were already like a distributed team and we were working with people in Spain.
So we were working across like a, I don't know how many hours time zone, which is like
an interesting challenge.
But I would love to hear how other people are optimizing for that because I just feel
like there's got to be a better way.
Like people have got to learn something in the last two years of pandemic about how to
do remote work really, really well.
Yeah, I'd love to open it up to everyone if you have thoughts or want to share anything
in the chat too.
I can share about what I just posted, which is about the book Rest by Alex Ping.
So Rest is, if you haven't read it, you should totally go read it.
It's fantastic.
It gives lots of different accounts of different people.
Lots of them are scientists.
Some of them are technology people.
And it's accounts kind of all throughout history of famous scientists who use their
downtime to do their background brain work, right?
Like the walking around on campus or the mountain climbing or the whatever that they
did was really essential to the background brain processes that they needed to have ideas
and think and all of that stuff.
I've been working remotely since 2015 and I feel like I was not very good at it for
a long time.
But I had a director at one point who was like, I need you to like take 15 minute walks
during your day.
It's like bill them as hours.
They're billable hours.
This is part of you working for this client.
I need you to go take walks.
And that really helped like building that into your schedule so that you have the white
space to let your brain do background work is really important.
Otherwise, you just sit there and you're at your screen for longer than a couple of
hours and your brain stops doing all that background process work because you're
forcing it to do too much stuff that's in front of your face.
I love that.
Really good recommendation.
I'm going to check out this book.
I see Ravonda, you also put some thoughts into the chat, too, if you want to jump in.
Sure.
I would like to get any advice on how we can work to make brainstorming work better virtually
because it seems like that is an area where people are so excited to get out of meetings
when they're virtual.
If anyone has any ideas about how to improve on that process, that would be great.
I can say a couple things.
Sorry, I just saw in the chat, too.
Someone said get a dog.
Don't get a dog.
I'm just looking at my dog whining at me from like outside in the other room.
They're not good.
The yeah, the brainstorming thing is the one that I've been trying out a couple of
things like there are online platforms like Mural and probably like I've used a couple
other ones where you can like drag around stickies and you can like everybody can kind
of collaborate on like this big whiteboard together.
I found that those can be like difficult to use, but some of the concepts are useful.
So like in my team, we've done brainstorming or we just use Google Slides and basically
like to prepare for the brainstorming, I do some prep work around like here are the like
high level like what if questions that we're trying to get ideas around and then like have
people go off and do their own brainstorming on separate slides.
So like it's really low tech like I'll be like, here's your slide.
Here's your slide.
Here's your slide and everybody write down like as many ideas as they can and it's
like the no bad ideas kind of concept and then after like 10 or 15 minutes of everybody
doing individually and not looking at each other's ideas.
Then we come back together and we try to move them around like categorize them.
So like we say like, okay, it looks like there's actually like five ideas here.
And so let's start a new slide for each of those ideas and everybody can like move
their ideas around.
So you can see how some tools where you can like really like drag and drop stuff would
be great.
But Google Slides is a very low tech way to get the same effect.
And then you can start to build on people's ideas like okay, great idea to do this.
But what if we also did this other thing and pulled it together?
So I've actually been really excited about the brainstorming that I can do online.
I think that's actually maybe one of the places where like everybody calling in is
kind of like a great equalizer.
Because I know I have colleagues and things who aren't going to like stand up and say
like, let me take over the whiteboard and tell you all my great ideas.
They might sit back in a meeting.
But when you give everybody their own slide, people are really happy to like quietly like
fill out their own ideas and put things there.
It kind of like levels the playing field.
I like that especially the part about giving everyone their own slide because I've noticed
in some meetings, people who are a little bit more introverted may feel a little bit
more shy at online meetings, at least in my experience.
So I like the idea that everyone has at least a small space.
And I like the idea of brainstorming separately and kind of coming together collectively.
I like that a lot.
Thank you.
Yeah.
And then you have the document too as a record, right?
It's shared with everybody.
And you can like, I don't know, I guess I'm trying to think if there's other platforms
that this works well for.
I'm just realizing that like my previous job where we used like Microsoft, I don't know
how, I can't remember if you can like actively all edit the same PowerPoint.
I think so.
It's the same idea.
But yeah.
I see Mark, you suggested Zoom's whiteboard feature too, if you want to share that or
how that works.
I don't know why I've never tried that out before.
We should try it out now.
It is pretty nifty.
You can just write on like the screen.
So if you need like a true, well, hang on.
It's been actually a while since I've used it.
I can't recall if you can just write directly on the screen or if there is like a true whiteboard
whiteboard.
I think it gives you the option of either.
But I've used it sparingly since I've started.
My team has started coming back into the office more often.
But I've found that that's been helpful when we were like walking through some technical
topics that like needed like a quick, just like hand sketch.
It's kind of wonky to do it with a mouse, but it's better than trying to describe something
visual to someone.
Cool.
I love this topic of brainstorming too.
George, I see you put some thoughts in the chat too, if you want to jump in.
Hey.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, I was just saying on top of the walking.
I know Elizabeth mentioned billable walks, which I think I think is great.
And I've worked at consultancy where you would definitely encourage to to include thinking
time, which was which was great.
But it doesn't it doesn't have to be a walk.
It just is anything where you get rid of your screens for a minute.
So I I'm like, I always have notepads in front of me.
So I'm like writing most of my ideas.
And then I end up because we do a lot of work on Slack.
Half of my messages are just a photo of a whiteboard or a photo of a sheet where I'm
like, I've written all this stuff down and I want to put it in a document, but I can't
I don't have time or whatever.
So I just send it to someone else and they end up having to deal with messy content.
So I'm probably a nightmare to work with.
But I definitely encourage getting away from screens.
And the physical act of writing is shown to be really helpful for memory and that sort
of thing.
It's why you write notes when you're in lectures and that sort of thing.
It's not for the content.
I don't think as much as it is for you to get that connection with what you're doing.
So, yeah.
Yeah, definitely.
And then you're focusing on one thing instead of a million things on your screen at once.
Yeah.
And all the pop ups and notifications that you get.
It's why I have a smartwatch, but I only wear it for exercise because you just I can't you
can't deal with getting everything all the time being bugged left right.
Yeah.
Maybe shifting gears a little bit.
I see there was a Slido message that was what does your tool stack look like, Alice?
Yeah, that's a great question.
Right now we are pretty easy, right?
Like we have a GitHub organization account.
We do lots of stuff just like locally and are in our studio or like Python with VS Code.
Everything goes on GitHub.
When we need a cloud computer, we use Google Cloud, spin up a VM, use Docker, store our
images on the container registry.
It's pretty simple because there's like three people working together, which is like a huge
luxury to be able to do things simply like that.
But yeah, you know, like I guess I think it's kind of fun being in a small company where
it's like if I need to deploy like a shiny app, like I did this the other day, I was
like, OK, I guess I have to figure out how to do that on Google Cloud because there's
nobody in the company who's like maintaining an RStudio Connect or something.
Right.
I'm like, but I can figure it out.
You know, can Google around, deploy that, figure out how to get it to work internally
and things like that.
I hope that answers the question.
Awesome.
Thank you.
Let me see what other questions are coming in.
One was, what data science conferences do you recommend, industry specific or just in
general?
Oh, man, that's so hard because I don't think there are good ones.
Well, I mean, it's like I feel like I belong in I'm part of like multiple worlds.
Right.
Because like I do a lot of things like I'm an organizer for Our Ladies Philadelphia.
And so I feel like I do a lot of like our general stuff or like like, OK, I'm going
to go to our studio conference for the first time.
And those sorts of things which are very much like general purpose, like our data
science type things.
But for my job, like the conferences that I really go to for that are like, you know,
ACR, ASCO, I'm going to Bio.
They're like very much around like clinical trials and that sort of research.
And there's often like a session, which is I think I kind of talked about this when I
was at ACR.
And I don't really know what to do with the data science stuff.
Right.
Like there'll be a session which is like genetics and bioinformatics and data science
and cheminformatics.
And it all kind of just like it's put together in this like semantic soup of data
intensive work.
Industry wise, I will say one thing is EMBL-EBI, which is like the European
Bioinformatics Institute or.
I hope that's what it stands for.
They organize like an industry consortium, which has always been really fantastic.
And so they organize different meetings, which are for people, you know, within
their industry partner companies, which are a lot of like pharma and biotech.
So they're not open to the public.
But those sorts of meetings are extremely valuable because it's a much, much
smaller group of people who are working on some of the same challenges and who
want to collaborate in kind of a pre-competitive way.
Awesome.
I'll put a shameless plug in for the RStudio conference, too.
Yeah, we'll plug it while we're here.
I know, Rwanda, you just asked around certain conferences, too.
Okay.
For a second, I got paranoid and I turned the chat only to hosts and co-hosts,
so I can only see the chat.
But Rwanda, feel free to unmute yourself, too.
Hi.
Yes.
I was wondering if you like the ISMB conferences or the RECOM conferences,
the ones because they're kind of more bioinformatics focused, but that seems
pretty relevant for data science and oncology.
Yeah.
I have to be honest.
I haven't been in ages.
I haven't been.
As I recall, like ISMB used to like rotate or ISDB, whatever they call it,
the conference, used to rotate between it was like in Europe and then be in the
U.S.
I feel like I probably haven't been since like 2014.
I should go because I think there's a lot of interesting topics at those
conferences.
But generally, the kinds of meetings that I've been going to are much more
kind of disease focused.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I should have explained why I was being paranoid in the chat.
Yesterday at a Zoom meetup, we had some not so great people who joined and
spammed the chat.
So I saw a few people joining with numbers in their name, so I just wanted
to make sure we were good.
I'll put the chat back open to everyone, too.
But let's see.
Other questions are coming in.
Someone asked on Slido, Alice, have you experienced a SAS to R transition?
If so, what lessons learned did you find that would have been useful to know
up front?
I have not.
So I've never worked in like a more traditional like biostats in pharma team
where they were doing that.
I have worked with teams who were like we were like an R team and there's
like a SAS team and we want to work together.
And I do think that that's challenging, right, to have those kinds of
collaborations across.
And so you kind of have to meet people where they are and like, you know,
okay, let's do some stuff in SAS, let's do some stuff in R, let's find a
place where we can collaborate together on the code.
No, I have not done that.
I've been fortunate enough to be kind of in a more research setting where
it was kind of like use whatever tools you want.
We had a lot of freedom always to do whatever we wanted, basically.
Hi, I'm Alex.
I can maybe chime in a bit about the SAS to R thing.
Unless someone else had a question they were first in line to answer.
No, that would be great.
I work for a company where we're all primarily epidemiologists or come
from some kind of a research background.
And I work in med tech.
But basically we were a team that was primarily SAS users.
And then we switched over to R.
And it was a real, like it was definitely a challenge.
We made the change because of financial reasons pretty much.
Yeah.
Honestly, I think people are really happy we made the switch.
I think what helped a lot was the R for Data Science book.
So I really recommend people read that.
And I think when a lot of people who use SAS are coming from this
research background and a lot of data science, I think, is really
structured in this more computer science framework.
And so focusing on the tidyverse and going through R for Data Science
and really breaking things down into kind of step-by-step research
really helped my team get acclimated to R.
So that's what we did.
We really broke it down by each step of the analytic process.
And we kind of went along with the R for Data Science book.
And we just looked at, okay, how do we import our data?
How do we, you know, get some basic frequencies?
I tried to like, as I was learning it, I tried to compare it like
the count function in the tidyverse to using PROC FREQ and SAS.
So there was a lot of like trying to compare things.
And there's also a great online book out there.
Sometimes there's maybe too many books for R online.
But there's one called the Epidemiologist Handbook for using R.
I can share a link.
But I thought that was really great for kind of helping my team switch
and really make those comparisons a lot.
Yeah, that'd be great if you could share that link in the chat too.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, I feel like that's always a difficult topic maybe around like
how much does a team standardize like the tools they have them,
people work with, right?
I've been interested in this question in the past, right?
I worked in a team where it was like, this person uses Python for this.
I use R for that.
And we all kind of like did whatever, which has, I mean, I feel like that
has some advantages.
It's nice.
People can use whatever tool they want and feel very much that they can
like pick the right tool for the job.
When I was at BMS, we basically, everything was in R.
It was like, we're just going to use R.
It helps a lot for collaboration.
So everybody, like Alex was just saying, like everybody's learning
together.
It actually is like building a lot of collaboration.
Everybody can share their code.
Everybody can share their experience.
So I also really enjoyed that.
I'm sure there were people on the team who were like unhappy having to
use R if they really wanted to use something else.
Yeah, I think that definitely happened on our team.
We kept the SAS license just to keep, you know, to make the transition
easier.
But I have found that once people started using R, they actually really
enjoyed the flexibility that came with it.
But yeah, there definitely was some pushback.
Thank you, Alexander.
I don't want to switch topics too quickly if someone else wanted to jump
in on that as well.
I can't find the raise hand thing.
I'm going to have to jump in again.
Yeah.
Yeah, in terms of, so a lot of, so a lot of people I deal with, it's
slightly more archaic than that.
It's a lot of Excel users.
So I'm trying to convince them to use data science tools, sort of like
showing them the options.
And so I work in insurance primarily, which I've mentioned a few times
before.
But one of the other things that we're competing with or that I'm
competing with as someone who goes around as a sort of R stroke open
source data science specialist is these big platforms that come in and
have really expensive licenses and that sort of thing.
It's going to come in.
It's going to solve everything.
This is the solution.
It's sort of like trying to encourage people not.
But also it's that mentality of, right, we're going to move everyone
from one thing to the other.
And it's pushing people there.
Whereas one of the things that I try and utilize in my, to my advantage
is because it's cheap.
We can get this.
We can just set up a server.
It's really, really cost effective.
We can make tools that attract users onto it rather than things where
we're pushing people there.
And I think it's so important if you want to get the buy-in from
everyone.
It's like, look, if you want to go and put everything in Excel and deal
with all your links that keep breaking and everything that keeps
collapsing, go ahead.
But we've also got this solution over here that a few people are using
now and working and they're getting loads done and going home at five.
So do whatever you want.
And then with that I find you can attract and get the conversation
flowing a lot more than coming in with a director who says no one's
allowed to save stuff in this anymore.
Yeah.
I think that's a, yeah.
It's difficult to do sometimes.
But it's, I think it's a good approach.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I know, Alice, you're about to jump in and say something.
So I don't want to interrupt you.
No.
Okay.
No, I mean, it's totally, I just, I agree with that.
Right?
Like getting people to switch tools and things.
It's like, what do you go with the carrot or the stick?
Right?
Like maybe a carrot shaped stick.
I don't know.
Like there's, I do agree.
Like it'd be great to incentivize people.
At the end of the day, I do think though, depending on like how your
organization is structured and stuff, it's extremely helpful.
Yeah.
If you're like senior leadership is also extremely enthusiastic and can
push things.
A lot of organizations, people get very frustrated trying to drive
things from the ground up.
It's just like, you know, a lot more downhill if you have a senior
leader who can get people excited about it as well.
Yeah.
Definitely.
And on that topic too, I know you're talking about training people
on to R or Python or coming to R.
Right?
Yeah.
So I'm going to jump into that.
I know a lot of people are coming on to R or Python or coming from
Excel or coming from SAS.
I see somebody asked anonymously, if I want to know how to start
doing data science, what resources does everyone have to share?
There's so many.
The flood in chat.
Yeah, exactly.
The flood.
I feel like we've already got like the big book of R.
There's like the classic, like, there's R1s and then there's like
broader like data stuff.
Right?
And like maybe, yeah, for cookbook, people are going to like put a
ton of stuff in the chat.
There's got to be like one master learn data stuff thing.
I would say maybe, though, my number one thing to say would be
find them something that you're excited about.
Right?
So the quote I really like is like, you know, the prerequisite for
doing exciting work is being excited about it.
Right?
So if you're really excited about cooking or like baseball or
cancer research or like research in biology, you know, if you're
looking for a job, you're going to find something that you're
really excited about.
Right?
So if you're really excited about cooking or cancer research
or like marketing, whatever it is, like find something like
that that you can do a project with.
Some of the like intro learning stuff, you still need to do it.
But if you have a goal in mind, like, yeah, I really want to
analyze my data or something, that'll make it so much better
to learn and get into it.
And then you have an interesting like case study or project that
you can also use to like demonstrate that, you know,
what's up.
So.
I love that.
Yeah.
I actually found Twitter to be really helpful for learning
about data science stuff.
I found like so many resources on there for our.
And to be honest, it was kind of overwhelming.
So looking back, like, well, I think it was a great place to
find things.
I think it's also a good idea to like maybe like think about
what you're most interested in with doing with data science
and just focus on it one at one thing at a time.
Right?
Because I think it's also a good idea to like maybe like think
about what you're most interested in with doing with
data science and just focus on it one at one thing at a time.
Like maybe you really just want to do like visualizations.
And I think then the tidy, maybe you could do the tidy Tuesday
visualizations and you can just focus on that.
And I think you'll be surprised how much you can learn just
from focusing on one little thing, because even those little
things have extra things that come with it.
So.
So, yeah, I don't know.
So I think there's a lot of ways to find amazing resources
and to learn data science.
The hard part is maybe thinking, what do you want to start with
first?
So that's a good idea.
Yeah.
So that's what I would do.
Great point.
I also agree that there's like a positive like mental
reinforcement when you have like some small successes.
Right?
Like there's that like joy of like, I made a plot.
Like I made a thing and I can like show it to people.
I did something.
And that really kind of like motivates you to keep going.
And I think it helps if it's something that's not like, oh,
look, I plotted, you know, like whatever cars, like disc versus
horsepower.
Like, oh, look, I plotted, you know, like whatever cars, like
disc versus horsepower.
Like, who gives a shit?
Sorry.
Like that's not exciting to most people.
Right?
But if it's your own data and you can say, like, look, I plotted
my like steps per day or whatever, it's a really exciting
like, I don't know, like what's the right endorphin or whatever
that you get from having that, that you can then build on.
I love all of these links in the chat too.
I saw, I scrolled up through the chat at one point last week.
And I was like, oh, that's so cool.
And I scrolled up through the chat at one point, Libby.
And I saw you had a great question around other skills that help
with data science.
You want to jump in?
Sure.
Let me scroll up.
I couldn't find it.
Yes.
Okay.
Oh, yeah.
So I asked if you have any non-data skills or hobbies that
you think make you a better data scientist.
And I've been thinking about this a lot because I feel like the
data science community is really vast and varied.
We all have different things we're good at.
A lot of us are musicians.
I know you and I are both so.
Yep.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
Oh, my gosh.
I could talk about this for like an hour.
Okay.
Sorry.
I could talk about this for so long.
It's very interesting to me.
Yeah.
No, I totally agree.
And I think I've been somebody who I've done random projects
with, right?
Like I think even like, you know, I did an analysis several
years ago.
Like I live near Philadelphia.
We have Wawa here.
So Wawa is like a gas station sandwich company.
I don't know.
I don't know if people know it other places.
But it's like down the road from my house, there was like
they're going to build like a super Wawa, which is like a
giant like Wawa with gas.
And so all the neighbors were like protesting and everything.
And I was like, okay, well, I can do some analysis.
I can like pull all the locations for all the Wawa in the
country and like analyze like how different is our Wawa from
those Wawas.
And like bring my skills to the table to my like angry
neighbors to be like, you're right.
This Wawa sucks.
And like, but you know, like it's an example of like, okay,
I did something weird because I was interested in the
question.
But bigger, like I think there's the question of like what are
the soft skills that make like somebody like a good data
scientist versus like a great data scientist?
And I think that's a really good question.
And I think it's a really good question.
I think there's a lot of questions that are like, okay,
what are the soft skills that make like somebody like a good
data scientist versus like a great data scientist, which is
something I've thought a lot about.
And I think we can, people ask like, okay, like what are the
skills you need for data science?
And I'm like, yeah, like the table stakes are you have to
come and you have to know some like programming, maybe
something about a database, maybe some statistics, and
maybe something about like the business you're in.
So in my case, having a strong biologic knowledge of, you
know, cancer pathways and things is really important.
But then there's everything else that makes you like go
from good to great.
So I tend to think like there's the ability to communicate
and build your network to influence people, right?
That's super important.
I think more though, it's also about creativity.
So how do you address problems?
And then how do you find the right problem?
That's a huge thing.
I think that's kind of the difference between being like
somebody who does something, right?
And then somebody who does something that doesn't work
right.
And I think that's a huge thing.
Somebody who does something versus a scientist is that
you're looking for the correct question.
So somebody might come to you and say like, here, we're
going to do this.
So like make me do this analysis.
You know, give me a P value.
But you can come back and say like, actually, I think
what we really need is X, Y, Z, this other thing.
And I think that's what differentiates people who are
just kind of good at their job versus great at their
job.
Yeah.
But I could talk about it forever because how you
develop those skills, I think are sometimes really
not from your day job.
They're from like the other things that you go out and
develop about yourself.
You might not actually cultivate those skills in your
nine to five.
I agree.
It's amazing.
Thanks, Alice.
And I definitely need to go to a Wawa apparently.
There's a lot of love.
Oh, yeah.
I also like I so I gave like a lightning talk about
like this Wawa.
And it was funny because everybody was like when I
started, they were like, yeah, Wawa, it's going to be
this like pro Wawa talk.
And I was like, oh, I'm actually very anti Wawa.
I was like, this is the wrong crowd for this.
And she was like pre-faced like I'm going to be saying
that I don't want the Wawa.
I see there was an anonymous question that just came
in.
I understand averaging for missing values.
But where do you stop on deleting data with a lot of
N.A.'s?
Yeah.
I think that's a really good question.
Where do you stop on deleting data with a lot of
N.A.'s?
I mean, I think that that's going to depend on your
field.
Right.
Like I'll say in the in the field that I'm in, like,
yeah.
I work right now with like observational data.
So it's a real world data from patients.
Like if you're an oncology patient and you go to your
oncologist, they'll be collecting all sorts of
information about your family history.
And they'll be collecting all sorts of information
about your family history.
Your current diagnosis for treatment, your how you're
doing on that treatment.
And then companies can curate that information for
research purposes.
Right.
So they're trying to understand everything they can
about real cancer patients today in the real world
versus clinical trials, which are kind of a different
situation.
But in that data, you have a huge issue with missing
this.
Right.
Because unlike in a clinical trial where we're going
to fill out, we require all this information, you're
not going to necessarily get all that information from
a patient's medical record, especially if you're
curating unstructured data from pathology reports
and things like that.
But in that case, you have to be extremely careful
because the data is not usually missing at random.
Right.
So the data is missing because maybe this practice
had this type of EMR.
And so that data was available.
And this practice had this other type.
But those are from two different, completely
different things.
Right.
Different regions, different types of clinical practice,
all those things.
So I don't know.
At least in the field that I've worked in with
medical data or biological data, you never really
get rid of it.
Never throw away the data.
You have to justify it, especially if you're in
a regulated environment, like if you're working on
a clinical study.
It has to be very well documented why you would
throw out a data point.
You know.
Thank you.
Read the Theranos book or whatever.
Make sure not to throw away data points.
For sure.
I see Robert had asked a question
in the chat towards the beginning of the talk,
which I missed.
He said, interested in hearing how the nature
of the work is different at the
bigger companies you talked about,
like J&J, Bristol-Myers, versus
a smaller life science company.
Yeah.
I think we have a different focus, maybe.
I can speak to my own, like,
personal experience.
I think one thing at a big level is that at a big
company, you have incredible
access to expertise.
So if you're at a big pharma company,
you have med chem people who have been
doing that for 20 years, and they're incredible.
You have commercial people
who know all about how to
get drugs on the market.
You have people in manufacturing
who know everything about that.
You have lawyers.
So that expertise is all there internally,
and you can email them.
You can find them.
If you're brave enough, you can get it.
When you work at a small company,
that expertise all exists,
just not within your company.
So you have to go out, and you have to get it.
I feel like that's one of the key
differences, is that
like, yeah,
you have to do it differently that way.
I think it's still all there, though.
It's not like I have to become all of a sudden
an expert. I'm not going to become
a medicinal chemist,
but I can get a contract
with a medicinal chemist to consult with me.
That's maybe one
big difference. The other thing would be the focus.
We just have a slightly
smaller focus,
and also
the need to pivot from project
to project as priorities dictate
is probably a little bit smaller.
Thank you.
I see
Jian,
you had a follow-up
question from the question before.
Do you want to jump in?
Oh, yeah.
I'm sorry. Yeah, this is Jian.
Awesome.
We can hear you.
Sorry.
Yeah, so
Alec, you just
talked about how you
treat data with record
anytime that you change it,
especially for those missing data.
I just wonder
what was your
during the project
the
frequency of changing
your missing data
replaced by the
mean?
Do you often do that or you
totally not doing it by
each cases?
Yeah.
That's a great question.
I think it's always going to depend on
your use case here, what you do.
I've been involved
in projects before where there are
different methods to impute missing data.
And
a couple good R packages to do this as
well, but I don't want to say the names off
the top of my head in case I get them wrong.
But yeah,
sometimes you do need to impute missing
data. Yeah, exactly.
Mice is probably one of them.
But it depends on
what you're doing and whether you want to
impute data or not.
It depends on your
use case.
And then you don't have
an estimated
how often you do that?
No.
No idea. Sorry.
It's not like a habit you should
establish, right?
Yeah, but I think it's a
challenge of working with
it really is sometimes
you can think
about different things when you're working
with data, right?
The answer is always it depends.
But one thing to keep in mind
is sometimes we tend to think
the data comes
from somewhere and
now we have the data and we have to deal
with it. And we can engineer this crazy
complicated solution around the data or whatever.
But the data didn't come from
a fairy that came and said data.
The data came from a machine or
a person or a study or something like that.
And that's often hard that
we just don't even think about that. It's like, okay,
the data came and now we have the data. Well, the data
didn't come from magic. You could
go and talk and see if you can get some of that data.
So if it's a
clinical study or something,
there's a site who put in that data
and you can go and talk to them and try to
get different data or rerun
a plate or something if there's
a QC problem or
something like that. And I think that's something
I personally forget all the time
because I'm just so used to like,
I have to over-engineer a solution to my data
versus trying to get better data.
I see.
I like all these comments in the chat too.
There's some great
comments in the chat about mice.
And you don't
really just drop it, right?
You just keep it or whatever.
Depends on.
I'm going to go back to it. It depends.
It depends on your question, right?
I think that you're really
biasing your population
a lot by removing and only
looking at the patients that have that data
or don't have that data. That's the question
really, right? So certainly,
yeah, sometimes you
only look at a subset.
That's generally how biomarker studies work,
right? If you have a large clinical
study, you're not going to have biomarker
data on all the patients. And that's because
there wasn't a sample available.
The sample didn't generate
meaningful data. There's a lot of failure
rates when you're working with biological
samples. So you end up evaluating
a biomarker population versus the whole
population. But the key is always
to demonstrate or to evaluate how
similar that population is
to your larger sample,
which again is not really representative
of all patients, but that's the idea.
And it's really important because sometimes
you can have a biomarker
population that is skewed
and somehow biased, and then it would not
be a good population.
Thank you so much.
Thanks for the question, too.
I see on the slide there's a bunch
of questions coming in, too, and I love
this one that just
came in. What leadership qualities
have made the biggest mark on you,
positive and or negative?
Leadership qualities?
Yes. What leadership qualities
have made the biggest mark on you?
I mean, I tend
to think
of good leaders that I've had in the past
and what made a good leader.
And so I apologize,
I've probably sworn already three times
on this, so let me try to think of a way to say it
without swearing.
The number one thing is don't be a jerk.
There are plenty of good leaders
who are complete a-holes, and there are
plenty of people who are successful
who aren't. So there's got to be a choice
there. And so I think there are
great leaders who really care about
the people that they work with
and
try to do right by people.
I think we've all had managers
where in the past they've made
your life miserable, but I fundamentally
don't believe that people wake up in the morning and are like,
I'm going to come to work and do a crappy job
and I'm going to make everybody unhappy.
It's all these other circumstances that
make somebody be toxic in a work environment,
but yeah, so leadership is number one,
don't be a jerk. I think the other thing
is really communication.
I forget if people are communicating up and down.
If you're a manager,
you have to communicate a lot with your reports,
but you also need to communicate a lot
with your management and then your peers.
And especially
to advocate for your team.
I think the leaders that I really respect
are the people who are all constantly advocating
for their team.
I go to a lot of conferences
and things, and the people who
are constantly giving credit for the people
who did the work, those are the kind
of, I'm like, wow, they're great.
I like them. Great job.
When somebody doesn't have any acknowledgments
or anything in their slides, I'm like,
what? What's going on?
Nobody wants to work for them.
Right?
So, yeah, people who
are generous, who communicate a lot,
those are kind of the leadership qualities
that I tend to hone in on, like am I doing a good enough
job communicating?
I think the third thing
is seeing the big picture.
So that's probably kind of some overlap
there with the other two.
Sometimes people get promoted into leadership
positions because they're really good at their
technical work.
But I think
being able to see a bigger picture
of how your work fits into that larger
picture is very, very important.
Yeah. And you don't have to be
constantly giving TED Talks and things about
your vision and
how you can see everything about the future.
But being able to help
connect what everybody's doing to
the mission of the company or to
some sort of bigger impact is really important
because it's just very demotivating
if you're working on something and you can't
see how it relates to
something
bigger than your individual work.
That's such a good point.
I always seem to notice that, too, in
presentations when people are highlighting
others on their team.
I just feel like it's such an easy win.
Why not be more
generous?
Definitely. I see
there's quite a few packages that are being
shared in the chat, too.
I'm going to ask this question now.
Someone asked, do you have a favorite R
package?
Favorite R package ever?
That's a hard question.
I feel like now
after we were talking about that, I should be like,
actually, I really like internal
R packages that people have developed at
companies I've worked for.
They're not publicly available, but
people in my team at BMS developed
R packages that were used
by the department, which were great
because it's like, here I've identified
a need and ability to help the coworkers.
I guess
what would be a publicly
available R package that would be my favorite?
I like
all my internal R packages, but
I don't know.
That's a really hard one.
Probably if I did an analysis
of what I actually use, it's
dplyr and ggplot2,
like everybody.
I guess that.
Awesome.
Thank you.
I'm going to go over to
some other questions from Slido, but if there are
questions that you all want to ask,
feel free to raise your hand here
on Zoom, too.
I see Isabella
just sent me a direct
message with a question, so I'll ask
it.
What do you find to be
the most effective way to communicate
your data insights to stakeholders,
especially stakeholders
you might not engage with as much?
This is where I can
use help on remote work, right?
I do think
that sometimes the most effective
communications I've had have been in person.
I don't have that
anymore, really, usually.
We don't do a lot of in-person
stuff.
That's where I would love to hear how
other people are doing things. I think there are
different schools of thought. Sometimes
it's like, okay, you need something interactive
so somebody can explore and then make
their own interpretations
or whatever. I tend to not think
that. I'm more of a fan of
the executive summary
where I'm like, here's
exactly what I mean. No
it's like, here's the result. I've seen
a lot of people come up with slides or
presentations or something where it's like,
here's a bunch of things I did. I did this.
Here's a plot. I did this. Here's a table. I did this.
Here's a table. I prefer
if somebody comes to the table
or comes to the meeting or whatever and says,
here's actually what I think you should
take away from it. Yes, here's all the
receipts. I have the plots. I have the methods.
I have all that stuff, but I'm trying
to convince you that this actually
means this. I'm trying to convince
you that we found this and it's important or
we actually did all this
work and we need to stop doing
this because it's not
working or our
hypothesis was wrong or something like that.
Maybe my biggest communication tip
would be have a lot of
TLDRs like executive summary
like this is the number one thing
you should take away from what I'm telling you
and then here's a ton of backup. If you
want to go through and see the nitty gritty detail, if you
want to see my code, if you want to see everything, it's
there, but the number one thing is this is
what I want you to, I'm trying
to persuade you of this point.
I love that. I was just writing
that time stamp down to remember
to go back to that.
Brittany, on that topic, I see you
just put a great comment into the chat
too if you'd want to expand
on that.
Yeah, I think
I tend to mentor
a lot of analysts, more junior
analysts at my company and one thing
that I notice is you can tell that someone's
growing in their career when they go from
this is the road I took
and then finally telling you
why you should care about all the stuff
I just told you before versus
lead with the headline and start with what people
care about and sometimes the
people that you're working with will want to know how
you got there and sometimes they won't.
Then you just give yourself and them a whole
lot of headache by doing it that way.
Totally and I think that people
I have to say I make this mistake
myself all the time. I'll talk
to somebody and I'll think, whoa, I messed that up.
I should have been way more short.
I didn't need all that detail or whatever.
I think it is something that no matter
if it's your first day or your
10,000th
day, we all use
reminders on that actually because
sometimes we default to
I'm just going to show you what I did versus why you
should care.
I love this
discussion. If other people have tips
or anything you want to add as
well, this is really
helpful for me too. I feel
like sometimes I try to fit way too much
into those 30-minute meetings
that you have.
I think sometimes I go too far
too. I've had a couple recently
where
I assumed I was like, they're not going to want to see
the data and then my
coworkers are like, yes, they want to see the data
and then I sent them the data and they
came back and they actually went through everything.
I was like, oh, okay. I shouldn't
assume that if somebody
is an executive, they want only two sentences.
They might actually want to see more.
Awesome.
One other question was
I imagine this is not an issue at
a startup. However,
in past workplaces,
have you had any challenges with
colleagues misperceiving your
inquisitiveness?
No.
I think that's interesting though.
I'm generally
a very curious person. I have a lot of
interests.
I think
you have to know when there's a time and a place
for being like talking a lot
versus not talking.
That's a great place to
ask your colleagues and stuff for feedback.
To be like, okay,
is it just me or was I the only one talking
in that meeting?
No, I can't think of a time
to be honest
where it was
necessarily misinterpreted.
I think I've been very fortunate
to work in research settings
where
curiosity is rewarded
and people are also
very
accepting
of you asking
questions.
I'm not afraid
if I don't know something, I'll ask.
I think that's always been
I actually respect
that a lot in people. Maybe back to
the leadership question,
people who know what they know
are comfortable with what they don't know.
If
you don't know something in a meeting,
I'm happy to ask
about it, even if it's something that's really basic
for somebody else. If I don't know it,
that's fine. I really respect
that in leaders that I've seen who will say
like, you know what, I have no idea what
precision means, so you're going to
have to explain it to me.
That's a great point. I know
an hour is going by
very quickly, but I know
when we first
met, actually, I think it was on the OurLadies
Slack discussion, we
talked a little bit about a role
that you were hiring for and your
thoughts around hiring. I just was
curious, are you still hiring
now? I am. I think that
is also another difference between a big company
and a small company is that
at a big company, you kind of
have a lot of
baggage, maybe, that people know
about the company. That can be a huge incentive
because they're like, oh, great, look at this
great company. It's a big company. I want to work
there. You get a lot of
the work done for you
of explaining the company.
When I've been hiring for my new job,
at least until recently,
we didn't have a website.
We had three employees.
I had to work a lot
within my network to be like, okay, let me
explain to you. Please just give me
an opening, and then now
since you know nothing about the company,
I'm going to have to explain it to you
a lot more than I had to in the past
when it was like, have you heard of Johnson
and Johnson?
People kind of know it, and they're not as
there's less work there
to do that, but I would actually love, I don't know
if we have time yet for people to talk about if they've
had any particularly positive or negative
remote hiring experiences
because that's been something I've been kind of
experimenting with is how
do I make an interview a good
experience for a candidate because at the end of
the day, I'm trying to sell them. I'm like, come work with
us. I want you to be excited about
coming to this job.
I don't want the interview to be too long,
but I also don't want it to be too short because
then they're not going to know enough about the job
to come and do it. I would love
to hear if people have tips or
particularly good
or even a particular nightmare. I would love
to hear a hiring nightmare situation
so that I can never do that.
Yeah, because
hiring remote is definitely
it creates new challenges.
Javier, yes.
Yeah, just in
terms of the nightmare situation,
this was years ago, about 10 years ago,
but we hired someone
this was before I got
into the way I'm using R today
and Python and whatnot, but
we were giving
Excel technical interviews
and we were telling all the candidates in advance
we're going to be doing Excel technical interviews
and this one individual
blew it out of the park.
It turns out that
they must have
really, really studied for
the basics that we were looking
for.
Since then,
I have had way more success
not giving that kind of technical interview
and literally the technical interview
is more of a discussion. I would
much rather prefer hiring someone
if I asked them like, hey, you know how
to develop shiny apps. I'd much
rather someone tell me I've never developed
a shiny app in my life,
but I use R Markdown
every day or
that tells me a lot
about their ability to actually jump
in and learn something new and
just their transparency. So I
feel like the types of technical interviews
I've had a lot of success
with the last few years has been more
like almost more
like a discussion technical interview
where I'm not even asking them to whiteboard
anything or it's just talking.
Yeah.
No, I love that and that's what I'm trying
to get at. If you
have any good questions that you ask in those
technical interview discussions or
something, I would love to hear them
because that's what I'm
working on. I have this evolving
list of interview questions
and how we ask them
to try to get at some of these things
because in some ways I'm much more interested
in the process, right?
How do people approach
a problem and solve challenges
that they encounter versus
the specific project
they worked on? Because they're not
going to work on that project ever again with me.
It's going to be a new project, so they're
going to have to learn something anyway.
For sure.
I've had like the last few
roles I've placed have been
exclusively from R
related things, whether
it's meetups or R hackathons
or it's people I've met to the
point where I'm starting to feel like I need
to make more of an effort to get into
a Python related hackathon or a Python
conference or something
where I might be over-indexing
on R folks.
But seeing
these people at hackathons and the way
they just problem solve
in
a day or four hours of
seeing how someone thinks, you really
get a lot of insight about these individuals.
I don't know. Just some tips that have worked for me.
That's awesome.
Thank you. Brittany, I see you have your
hand raised too. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, my company actually does.
We do do a technical interview
and we give candidates a
data set while
they're sort of on-site, whether that's them actually
being on-site or just being in
a Teams meeting. And then we give
them maybe like an hour, hour and a half
to actually just see what sorts of insights
you find with a few very
specifically directed questions.
And what we're often looking
for is not someone to have perfect
answers to those questions. Kind of like
what you said. It's really about understanding how
did you look at the data set? What
other information did you want?
What do you wish you had more time
to do? So you really get to
see, like Javier said, how people are thinking,
how they work through something.
Especially if they don't have
a perfectly polished presentation
after like 45 minutes or so.
That's great, Brittany.
I was just trying to read
through some of the other comments in the chat too.
George, did I see your hand was raised earlier?
Yeah, briefly.
So I had a, I guess
it was part of an
interview with both technical and software.
This was pre-pandemic and that was
onsite, but it was R-based
questions and
it went horrifically,
but they gave me the job again.
The bit which was
absolutely horrible and I
still get cold sweats thinking
about it. I just sort of froze
in the interview. It became like a pub quiz
on R stuff and that
is categorically
my worst nightmare of it.
What packages are in the tidyverse?
At the time I didn't use tidyverse.
I was base R and so
I ended up going on site and
learning tidyverse really well and loving it.
So this was like
four or five years ago. I can't remember.
2018?
And yeah, it was just
that sort of like, what package
would you use to do this? What function would you use?
I'm like, I have no idea.
I can't answer this question.
I feel like one that sticks
in my head from an interview I did was
they were like, please describe in detail the
differences between Python 3 and Python
2. I was like,
I know that they both exist,
right? Is that an answer?
There's
non-backward compatible changes?
Print maybe?
F printing?
I feel like it's the only thing I can
think of. F printing.
I mean,
I kind of said, honestly,
I'm not going to answer that question.
Have you ever answered anything
with, this is something I would Google?
Because I feel like that's a
valid answer sometimes.
I don't know this, but I know where to find
it. So I feel really confident
in my ability to Google this. I feel like it's a valid
response for me.
It's a skill.
Honestly, if I ask somebody a question
and they said that, they were like, you know what,
this is something that I know. I know where I
could find the answer to that. I would be like,
perfect answer.
That's a perfect answer to me.
Not knowing, but knowing where to find
the information. Great.
Absolutely.
Ruvanda, I see you have your hand raised, too.
Yes. I was just going to say that
I liked Brittany's idea
on a technical interview.
Personally, similar to
Alice and some others, I've been getting
questions that you could just go
on Google or
find something like that very
technical. I also, because
of my field, I went
probably five or six years ago, I went on
three different interviews and they had a
technical part on algorithms.
Every single one of them, the answer was dynamic
programming. So they must have gone somewhere
and decided that that was
the algorithm to ask about. I find that
a little bit ridiculous because it wasn't really
relevant to what they were working on.
I got to the point where I found that
a little bit off-putting. Whenever I interview
people, I try to make it more
like Brittany does, which
is more of a conversation around the data
and what we might actually be doing.
You can Google things. You can learn things. It's more
about problem-solving.
Yes. I have
been doing that a little bit.
I have an optional
take-home, which is that here's a
data set. Take an hour and tell me
something. Use whatever tools you want.
Use Excel, use R, use Python,
and Abacus.
The key thing I want to see is
I want to see some written output
of what you did and what you would do if you
had more time.
I'm still kind of on the fence
though because I know that a lot of people are
so anti having any kind of
technical component that I'm still trying to feel
out, okay, net,
is it better to have it or better not
to have it? Is it really helping us
make the best hiring decisions?
But I do love that format. I think
what you described is awesome.
Mark says style points if they use
an Abacus though.
Right? Yeah. Honestly,
if somebody came with some crazy
creative thing where they were like
I did something, I don't know,
maybe it would be a pro.
I know we're a little bit over the top
of the hour, so I just want to make sure there weren't
questions that
I missed either on
Yeah, Libby, an hour is never enough, but
questions I missed on Slido or anything
in the chat, feel free to raise
your hand.
And Alice, while people are thinking
of last questions or if they had any,
what's the best way for people to stay
in touch with you?
Oh, yeah. I think probably
LinkedIn. I'm on LinkedIn.
I'm also on Twitter. My
handle is science Alice,
so you can follow me on Twitter
for the five times a year I tweet
something.
Yeah, but like LinkedIn or Twitter are great.
Yeah, and I would love to hear
people like, honestly, I would love to hear
people's interview ideas,
especially for like remote hiring,
great things that they're doing
that they think have worked really well or places
that they're finding are really
great for hiring. Would love it if you
reach out to me on that sort of thing.
I was just thinking back to one
of the data science Hangouts. I think the last one
of last year
we were talking
about hiring in great deal
and I was just, I'm bad at
multitasking, but I was trying to find it at
the same time.
Let me just grab it real
quick, unless Tyler, Hannah, you can
share the one from Ryan
Garnett.
Okay, it might start playing on YouTube when I click
on this, so apologies.
Okay, I got it. I always hate when the
YouTube videos start with my own voice
and I have to listen to my voice
there, but I just shared
that. I think it would be helpful for everyone
too, but thank you
so much, Alice. This was awesome.
Yeah, thank you.
I mean, I had a lot of fun.
Really appreciate you
sharing your experience with us and thank you for all the great
questions too. I'll see
everybody next week, hopefully.
We will be joined by
Travis Girk
from the Prostate
Clinical Research
Trials.
Awesome. Thanks, everyone. Have a great rest of the day.
outro